# Identifying Motifs of Tumour Tissue Architecture with Deep Representation Learning
* Shorya Singh
* 2224727
* Dr Ke Yuan

##Abstract

Advances in Deep Learning have allowed useful representation learning of digitized histopathological images. Histopathological images can provide insights into the growth patterns of tumours in their micro-environment. Deep learning approaches can be applied to these images for pattern recognition to aid tumour diagnosis, treatment, and prediction. However, researchers must be able to determine the usability and suitability of such representations for applications of interest to be able to pick the most suitable representation for their application. So far, little work has been done on determining, comparing or ranking the suitability of such representations for specific tasks in pathology. In this work, we ask how suitable such deep representations are for specific downstream machine/deep learning applications in pathology and strive to uncover patterns in tissue images captured by such representations. We provide a comparative study of two deep representation learning models for their suitability in unsupervised and supervised applications in pathology. We exhibit an in-depth clustering analysis using two different clustering methods and compare the performance of the two representation learning methods. We also show a supervised analysis for the representations and compare them according to the tissue type classification performance of these representations. Finally, we report many notable observations in our study which reveal important characteristics of the deep representation models in question.
